Add task docs for ansible (#6129)
grafana/agent: docs/sources/flow/get-started/install/ansible.md

---
aliases:
- /docs/grafana-cloud/agent/flow/get-started/install/ansible/
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/get-started/install/ansible/
description: Learn how to install Grafana Agent Flow with Ansible
menuTitle: Ansible
title: Install Grafana Agent Flow with Ansible
weight: 550
---

# Install or uninstall {{% param "PRODUCT_NAME" %}} using Ansible

> If your machines are already managed with Ansible, you can install {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} from
> our package repositories with these steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use Ansible to install and manage {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}}.
```

We could simplify this and make it more direct.

## Before you begin

- These steps assume you already have a working [Ansible](https://www.ansible.com/) setup,
and a pre-existing inventory.
- You can add the tasks below to any new or existing Role you choose.

> - These tasks install from Grafana's package repositories. They expect to target linux systems using 
> apt or yum package managers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- These tasks install {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} from the package repositories. They expect to target Linux systems using 
APT or YUM package managers.
```

## Steps

To add {{% param "PRODUCT_NAME" %}} to a host:

> 1. Add these tasks to your playbook to add the Grafana package repositories to your system:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add the following tasks to your playbook to add the Grafana package repositories to your system:
```

    ```yaml

>     - name: "Install deb repo"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - name: "Install DEB repo"
```

      when:
        - "ansible_pkg_mgr == 'apt'"
      block:

>         - name: "Import Grafana apt gpg key"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - name: "Import Grafana APT GPG key"
```

          ansible.builtin.get_url:
            url: "https://apt.grafana.com/gpg.key"

>             dest: /usr/share/keyrings/grafana.key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            dest: /etc/apt/keyrings/grafana.gpg
```

Suggesting this change to keep it in sync with the install instructions here: https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/setup/install/linux/

            mode: "0644"

>         - name: "Add Grafana apt repository"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - name: "Add Grafana APT repository"
```

          ansible.builtin.apt_repository:

>             repo: "deb [signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/grafana.key] https://apt.grafana.com/ stable main"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            repo: "deb [signed-by=/etc/apt/keyrings/grafana.gpg] https://apt.grafana.com stable main"
```

Again to align with existing Debian/Ubuntu install instructions

            state: present
            update_cache: true
    - name: "Install yum repo"
      when:
        - "ansible_pkg_mgr in ['yum', 'dnf']"
      block:

>         - name: "Add Grafana yum/dnf repository"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - name: "Add Grafana YUM/DNF repository"
```

          ansible.builtin.yum_repository:
            name: grafana
            description: grafana

>             baseurl: "https://packages.grafana.com/oss/rpm"
>             enabled: true
>             gpgkey: "https://packages.grafana.com/gpg.key"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            baseurl: "https://rpm.grafana.com/oss/rpm"
            enabled: true
            gpgkey: "https://rpm.grafana.com/gpg.key"
```

The info documented here: https://packages.grafana.com/ shows `baseurl=https://rpm.grafana.com`  Does Ansible work with the deeper dir structure or does it need/work with the root URL?

Same path documented for `gpgkey`  Just changing for consistency in all sources... https://packages.grafana.com/ and https://rpm.grafana.com/ and https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/setup/install/linux/

            repo_gpgcheck: true
            gpgcheck: true
    ```

> 1. Add these tasks to install and enable the `grafana-agent-flow` service:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add the following tasks to install and enable the `grafana-agent-flow` service:
```

    ```yaml
    - name: Install grafana-agent-flow
      ansible.builtin.package:
        name: grafana-agent-flow
        state: present

    - name: Enable grafana-agent-flow service
      ansible.builtin.service:
        name: grafana-agent-flow
        enabled: yes
        state: started
    ```

## Configuration

> The `grafana-agent-flow` package will install a default configuration file that does not send telemetry anywhere.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `grafana-agent-flow` package installs a default configuration file that doesn't send telemetry anywhere.
```

> The default config file location is `/etc/grafana-agent-flow.river`. You may replace this file with your own config, or create a new file for the service to use. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default configuration file location is `/etc/grafana-agent-flow.river`. You can replace this file with your own configuration, or create a new configuration file for the service to use. 
```

## Next steps

> - [Configure {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}}][Configure]

Reviewer 2: I think we should link to https://grafana.com/docs/agent/next/flow/get-started/run/linux/ as "Run".
